From daemon@cs.nmt.edu Thu Oct  6 17:23:41 1994
Return-Path: <daemon@cs.nmt.edu>
Received: from sphinx.nmt.edu by vlsi.polymtl.ca (4.1/SMI-4.1.1)
	id AA12686; Thu, 6 Oct 94 17:22:59 EDT
Errors-To: dnet-owner@cs.nmt.edu
Received: (from daemon@localhost) by sphinx.nmt.edu (8.6.8.1/8.6.6) id PAA00669 for dnet-mail; Thu, 6 Oct 1994 15:17:21 -0600
Received: from umr.edu (hermes.cc.umr.edu [131.151.1.68]) by sphinx.nmt.edu (8.6.8.1/8.6.6) with ESMTP id PAA00659 for <dnet@cs.nmt.edu>; Thu, 6 Oct 1994 15:17:09 -0600
Received: from saucer.cc.umr.edu (saucer.cc.umr.edu [131.151.1.58]) via ESMTP by hermes.cc.umr.edu (8.6.9/E.3.02) id QAA11873; Thu, 6 Oct 1994 16:15:27 -0500
From: Mark Layne <layne@umr.edu>
Received: from (layne@localhost) by saucer.cc.umr.edu (8.6.9/M.3.01) id QAA24139; Thu, 6 Oct 1994 16:15:26 -0500
Message-Id: <199410062115.QAA24139@saucer.cc.umr.edu>
Subject: Monsters (long)
To: dnet@cs.nmt.edu
Date: Thu, 6 Oct 1994 16:15:26 -0600 (CDT)
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL20]
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Length: 17773     
Reply-To: dnet@cs.nmt.edu (The dnet mailing list)
Errors-To: dnet-owner@cs.nmt.edu
X-Bmw: Black Marble Wombat Version 5.1
Status: OR

To All:


The following 3 files and posts are what I have from the Monster group.

I have not heard from anyone in that group is sometime.  Of course I have
not tried to contact them either. :)

I like many have no time and it looks like I will not have any for sometime
to come.  I am posting these things just for a summary to anyone who wishes
to continue on with them now that realignment is about to happen.

I would like to stay on the project lists but I am unsure of ever getting
any time to do anything.


Mark.

Begin ----Request from Monster Group Leader and my Response------------

:Hi everybody, I'm sending this message to all of the members of the 
:Monsters/NPC's group.  The first thing we should decide upon is:  what
:are the objectives of this group?  Here's what I think:
:
:(1) Establish conventions for creation of new monsters and NPC's
:    That is, what sort of stats are necessary?  How should the description 
:    of the monster be organized?  

I sent you my defn. of the different stats as I see them.  If you want
more defn. on them let me know.  Like I said I would like to see some
of the stats I listed paired back.
:
:(2) Create a "library" of monsters to the used with the DragonNet Game System,
:    and decide how this library should be presented/organized.  It should
:    obviously be available in plain text format, but it would also be nice
:    to create postscript and hypertext monster libraries.  Is anyone out
:    there a good artist?  Well, I'm getting ahead of myself here, we don't 
:    even have any monsters yet, let alone a whole library of them.

About a week ago there was a list of xD&D monsters posted that were 
assumed to be safe.  I have not seen anyone dispute it.  Listed below is
that post.
<Start of Monster List Post>

I don't see how T$R is winning any friends with its recent activity.  In
fact, This is the first time I've used the $.  These monsters and creatures
exist in works or legends other than those of T$R (hey, that's easier to
type, too.), or they are real.

Aerial Servant            Gnome                     Porcupine
Animal, Herd              Goblin                    Ray (Except, maybe,
Ant                       Golem                              Ixitxachitl)
Ant, Giant                Gorgon                    Rakshasa
Ant Lion, Giant           Gremlin                   Rat, all
Ape, Carnivorous          Griffon                   Raven
Badger                    Groaning Spirit           Revenant
Barracuda                 Hag                       Roc
Basilisk (Dracolisk       Hobbit                    Salamander
  may not be ok, though)  Harpy                     Satyr
Bat (maybe not mabat)     Hawk                      Scarecrow
Bear                      Nightmare                 Scorpion
Beetle                    Hippogriff                Sea Horse
Boar                      Hobgoblin                 Sea Lion
Bookworm                  Homonculous               Shark
Brownie                   Hornet, giant             Skeleton
Bugbear                   Horse                     Skunk
Cats, Great               Hydra                     Snail
Centaur                   Hyena                     Slug
Centipede                 Iguana, giant             Snake
Chimera                   Imp                       Spectre
Cockatrice                Jackal                    Sphinx
Coatl                     Jackalwere                Spider
Crocodile                 Kobold                    Sprite
Crustacean                Lamprey                   Squid
Daemon                    Larva                     Sylph
Demon                     Leech                     Toad,Giant
Devil                     Leprechaun                Titan
Dinosaurs                 Lich                      Treant (Tolkein, anyone?)
Dogs                      Lycanthrope               Triton
Dolphin                   Lizard, giant             Troglodyte
Doppleganger              Lizard Man                Troll
Dragon                    Manticore                 Turtle,giant
Dragonfly, Giant          Marut                     Unicorn
Dwarf                     Medusa                    Urchin
Dryad                     Men                       Vampire
Eagle                     Merman                    Vodyanoi (acquatic
Eel                       Minotaur                            umber hulk)
Elemental                 Mummy                     Vulture
Elephant                  Naga                      Weasel
Elf                       Nixie                     Whale
Einhariar                 Nymph                     Wight
Ettin                     Octopus                   Will o' Wisp
Fish, Giant               Ogre                      Wolf
Frog                      Orc  (Couldn't tolkein    Wolfwere
Gargoyle                       sue T$R for this?)   Wolverine
Genie                     Owl                       Worm
Ghost                     Pegasus                   Wraith
Ghoul                     Phoenix                   Wyvern
Giant, all                Piranha                   Yeti
Fomorian                  Pixie                     Zombie
Cyclops                   Pleistocene Animals
Firbolg                   Poltergeist
-- 

In all of these, I have erred on the side of caution.  I will do some
research and most likely add to this list.  If you are sure about a
monster, please feel free to add to the list.  If you do so, amend the
subject to so indicate (i.e. T$R-Safe monsters 2)
 Mike "Defiler Lord" Nancarrow

<End of Monster List Post>

Perhaps we should send off an invitation to Mike to be in the Group.

Speaking of reaching out to others there are the Net_Monsterous_Comp's.
out there and the LaTeX version's compiler is Robert Christian
robertc@garfield.cs.mun.ca.  I am unsure about what is in it because
I am not very versatile in UNIX and LaTeX so I have not seen it yet.
There is also an ASCII version out there of a Monster Compendium that
was posted by pete@andromeda.rutgers.edu I think.  This may not be his
email address any longer the post was at an FTP site and was posted
in 1992.

:
:(3) Consult with the Core Mechanics group to decide how to handle issues
:    such as hit points, attacks, morale, etc.  Our monsters aren't that 
:    useful if they won't be compatible with the rest of the system.

YES YES YES.
:
:(4) Consult with the Game World groups to create monsters native to 
:    specific campaigns.

This I believe can be done after getting a base list compiled.  Specifics
in world generation should be done but there should be common creatures
between all worlds and even though this part is the drudgery it has to
be done.
:
:Some of you might disagree with me as to the objectives of our group; if so
:then don't hesitate to voice your own opinion.  We're a small enough group
:that we can all comment and post about everything without killing the 
:mail servers.  In fact, it's probably better if we use email instead of the
:rec.games.design newsgroup for group-related topics:  that newsgroup has high
:enough bandwidth as it is.
:
:Anyways, I think our course of action should be as follows:  first of all,
:we should establish conventions for generation of new monsters, then
:we can post our monster generation guidelines on the newsgroup.  After that
:I'm sure we'll be swamped with lots of great ideas for new monsters (we'll
:also want ol' faithfuls like goblins and dragons and the like, although
:here we should be careful that we don't just borrow their stats directly from
:xD&D texts).

YES very true.  Maybe some one more into the mythology can generate more
historical versions of the creatures.  There is a mythology USENET group
out there isn't there?

:When I receive the new monsters, I'll send descriptions of
:the monsters to all of the members of the group, so that we can decide 
:whether we want to junk, keep, or modify the monster.  In this way we can 
:build up a library of monsters and NPC's.  

Sounds good.
:
:Please let me know if you disagree with any of this, or if you have anything
:else that you want to add.  I will be sending more info soon. 
:
I will probably not be intouch much during the weekend as I usually go
out of town.  About every other weekend my game group and I get together
up in St. Louis and play.  I am going to bring this to them.  We have
some unique monsters involved in our worlds and I will try to get a
write up on them for us.  Mainly what we call dark fairy creatures which
are often half breeds and genitic manipulations of elves and devil/demons.

Later,

END - Request and Response -----------

Start - My defn of monster stats --------

Oh Leader of the Group:

The following are some stats that I think may need to be 
defined in our process of designing monsters for DNET.  It 
should by no means be considered a complete list or a 
specific list for each different monster.  There are some 
general catch all catagories below for specials on the 
different creatures. Some of the catagories could very 
easily be redefined into other areas and I would actually 
suggest doing this.  I would rather see a lot less 
catagories then what I have listed below.  

The names at the start of each catigory are different 
suggestions and I am sure that you and the rest of the group 
have your lists as well.  I think we should all define our 
lists, as I have done here, exchange them and then compair 
them.  That way if there are catagories that we all agree 
upon, we can set them aside and focus on the ones where 
there are differences of opinion.

Topography - Region - Ground Type - Land
  What type of land structures are present. (Montains to 
  Planes to Desert to Caves)

Atmosphere - Climate - Weather - Region
  What type of atmospheric contitions are "typical" for 
  the creature. (Tropical to Desert to Frozen Wasteland 
  to etc...)

Group - Organization - Association -Society - Order
  Activity level between different members of the same 
  species.

Liveliness - Activity Cycle
  When the creature is active. (day or night or always or 
  winter or etc...)

Occurance - Frequency - Regularity - Ratio
  How natural it would be to encounter one of the 
  creatures should you be in their specific region.

Diet - Nourishment -Food - Menu
  What it eats.

Alignment - Natural Bent
  When first encountered what will be the typical 
  reaction of the creature.

Intelligence/Brain Power = Should be same as for Character 
Creation
  How smart the creature is relative to Human Base 
  (Assuming we are basing norm on human standards.)

Treasure - Moneys - Items - Possessions
  What type of possession are generally found with the 
  creature.

Number Appearing - Number - Size of Group - Count - Amount
  How many will be in one place at any give time.

Armor Class - Armor Rating == Same as in Combat Creation
  Should be based upon the same system as used in the 
  combat section.  Also should be rated as natural due to 
  physical abilites and characteristics (hide, 
  exoskeleton, speed) or a supplemented armor due to 
  creature wearing armor.

Movement  - Rate ==  Same as in Core Mechanics
  Ranked based upon Human Norm of ??

Level  ==  Same as for Character Creation
  Ranked based upon Human Norm of ??  Possibly throw this 
  out and give a combat ability score.

Ability to Hit Others of a certain Base Armor Rating == I 
believe to be a Worthless Number 
  Level or class variation as with Combat System. Part of 
  combat ability score.

Size - Proportion - Magnitude - Dimensions
  Based upon human norm.  Could set up as % of human size 
  or actual classifications (ultra small, very small, 
  small, medium, large, huge, gigantic, megalithic)

Number of Attacks - Attack Ability
  How many times and by what method of attack the 
  creature strikes its opponets.

Damage per Attack == ? Combat Creation Group
  Base range upon normal damage done by weapons.  Need to 
  know combat damage.

Special Attacks / Special Defenses - Special Abilities - 
Natural Abilites
  Special natural abilites of the creature.

Magic Resistance == ? Magic Group
  Natural ability to resistance magical energy expended 
  toward creature.  Could be combined with special 
  defenses.

Morale - Spirit - Resolve - Confidence
  How likely the creature will stand and fight after 
  taking damage.   Could be combined with Natural Bent 
  above.

Experience Points == ? Level Advancment of Characters
  Part of Combat ability Score.

More Detailed Sections:

   Attack/Defense:  Write up on how the creature would act 
   in battle.

   Social:  Write up on how the creature would interact 
   with others of its own type or of other creatures it 
   normally comes in contact with.

   Monster Husbandry:  How the creature lives, day to day 
   routine.

I have only sent this list to you. Should you wish you may 
repost it anywhere or forward it anywhere you wish.

End of Monster Defn text -----------------------

Start of my Race Non-Player Controlled -----------

 
Let me know what you think of this race.


Non-Player Controlled Race:

LORTHARIANS (Please unsure if name has been used before for 
something else. If it has let me know.)

Stats:  Human except for Ancestral Link and what it grants.

Physical Appearance: Human.

The race is typically human except for one "evolved" ability.  
At birth members of the race are spiritually linked with (0-
4, 1d5-1) souls of their ancestors.  The link can give them 
a direct access to the past lives of their ancestors.  The 
degree of the link is relative on a % roll.  A high % roll 
means the ancestor and race member have a strong link and 
the ancestor is integral in the members life.  Each soul 
grants a plus to the living person in a skill from each of 
the linked souls or possibly a plus 1 to a stat if the soul 
of the ancestor was an adventure.  The only way a stat 
increase is possible is if the link between the race member 
and his adventurous ancestor is 95% or better.  The plus one 
is dependent upon the archetype of the adventurous ancestor.  
The members of the race that do not have a link with an 
ancestor go out into the rest of the world.  The ancestors 
are still fully sentient and can withdraw from interaction 
with the living race member.

The society of the race is based upon a family caste system.  
Each families ancestors have sculpted their families into 
certain positions in society and each have their own 
specialties.  All aspects of a typical high fantasy society 
is present and they have a small but viable society.  The 
race numbers are small because 25% of the populace adventure 
or at least leave their lands to settle in other lands to 
enrich their spirits for later generations.  Since only 20% 
of the population does not have an ancestral link the other 
5% have links with adventures that have recently died.  
Realize that it has been at least the age of the race member 
with the link since the ancestor died. This may cause an 
adventure idea.  The 5% of ancestor linked members hide the 
fact that they have a link to other members of their race or 
the ancestor itself withdraws and does not reveal itself to 
the member.

The Lortharians are a solitary race which typically live in 
an area that has some type of physical barrier between their 
homeland and the rest of the populated lands.  When 
outsiders visit they are treated cordially but the 
impression is quickly imparted that they are a singular 
people and do not need or wish an "active" interaction 
with other races.  This is because they have already 
experienced the outside world through their link with their 
ancestors.

The race has no pantheon of gods due to the ancestral link.  
This is one reason why as a race they are not involved in 
world politics.  This is not to say that political intrigue 
is unknown to their race.  Internal political struggles are 
continually active across the generations.  Internal feuds 
between the different families have been know to cause 
bloody civil wars as well. 

Due to the ancestral link the race has a fantastic oral 
history tradition and to select members of the more 
intellectual and adventurous of the outside world this 
history is known to exist.  The adventurous members of the 
race to not discuss their unique racial abilities.  Use in 
game terms: the race is of great interest to Sages for its 
ancient histories.  The great families of the race maintain 
a "Registry" of their family ancestors and what they have 
done and who they are currently linked with.  This registry 
is typically not open to outsiders.  Among the Sages there 
is a saying used for ancient riddles: "If there is a 
solution only the Lortharians know it, and their not 
talking."

This access to such a large body of ancient history is one 
reason why the race is considered to be non-player 
controlled.  If the GM wishes to allow players to run 
members of this race they should only be from the 25% of the 
populace that leave their lands and should not be allowed 
free and easy access to the knowledge database back home.  
They are out in the world to adventure and have unique 
experiences, to solve the riddles themselves.

Later,

End of My Non-Player Character Race. -----

That is all I have stored for the monster group.  If anyone else
from the group has anything to add please do so.

Later,
-- 
______________________________________________________________________
 Mark "Guido" Layne, Yeast Wrangler        email: layne@umr.edu
 Hermits UNITE                             University of Missouri-Rolla
 Office: (314) 341-6498                    Petroleum Engineering
 FAX:    (314) 341-6935                    119 McNutt Hall
 Home:   (314) 364-0186                    Rolla, MO  65401

