Hi, I reformatted it a bit, so that the Descriptions
weren't so wide. Things are kinda busy for me now so that
is the reason that I am mostly quiet. I've included some
comments below each one, generally they look pretty good

Great Job Dale!

eventually I will include these on my page...
my comments start with ****

-------------Included Text--------------------

Author: Dale Wood
World: Dal'Mar
No Player Characters
Versions 0.5 - Converted to DragonNet 29.08.96

Dark Secrets of Dal'Mar Appendix C: Species

Species Name: Ant; Giant
Cultures: Nest
Average Height: 1m Long
Average Weight: 15 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 2 years
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, WIL +2
Body Points: 10
Speed: Average
Gifts: Natural Body Armor, Pinchers
Foibles: Low INT - mindless workers
**** I would probably put this as suspectible to orders

Description: Similar to normal ants; live in underground nests and
protect queen at all times. They will attack any creature coming near
the nest or may be encountered in small groups scavenging for food.


Species Name: Bat; Ordinary
Cultures: Nest
Average Height: 0.1m 
Average Weight: 0.25 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 7 years
Attribute Adjustments: AGI +1
Body Points: 5
Speed: Swift Flying
Gifts: Fly, Sonar
Foibles: Short Vision
Description: Bats tend to avoid human contact,
however large groups can become frightend and blind and confuse a party
as they swarm.

Species Name: Bookworm
Cultures: None / Small groups
Average Height: 0.03m 
Average Weight: 0.025 kg
Size Rating: Vary Small
Lifespan: 100 years; unknown
Attribute Adjustments: PER +1
Body Points: 2
Speed: Slow
Gifts: Chameleon camouflage
Foibles: 
Description: Bookworms are inch
worm like with the ability to change color to match their surroundings.
They are drawn to parchment and can eat their own weight in about 5
minutes expelling a fine powder as waste. A bookworm can crawl on a
person without detection and smell parchment up to 100m away.

**** Are they an indoor only species or can they live out in the
**** wilderness? Or perhaps they were made specificly to pester
**** people with books.

Species Name: Centipede; Giant
Cultures: None / Small groups
Average Height: 0.5m Long
Average Weight: 0.5 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 8-12 months
Attribute Adjustments: STR -1, FIT +1, AGI +1, WIL +1
Body Points: 5
Speed: Swift
Gifts: Poision Bite
Foibles: 
Description: Giant
Centipedes are gray green to dark gray they are very aggressive and
will attack without provocation. If a victim is killed they will 10%
likely lay 10-100 eggs that will hatch in 30 days and use the corpse
as a food source. Their poison will not kill unless multiple bites are
taken however a single bite can cause dizziness and vomiting and may
require rest to fully recover.

**** Sounds good, how about a TD of 8 for the poison, and it is
**** cumulative? roll to kill versus FIT and a save results in dizziness
**** vomitting.

Species Name: Coincrit
Cultures: None / Slug like groups
Average Height: 0.25cm x 3cm
Average Weight: 0.02kg
Size Rating: Very Small -8
Lifespan: 2 years
Attribute Adjustments: NA
Body Points: 4 
Speed: Slow / Jump Swift
Gifts: Camouflage with coins
Foibles: Extreme temperatures kill
Description: Coincrits are fluid sucking slug like creatures that
resemble gold or copper coins. These creatures usually dwell in damp
wooden chests and lie with the coins. They move slowly in a worm like
fashion however they can constrict and jump about 2m swiftly. The
Coincrit will then burrow beneath the victims flesh and ooze a sleep
inducing poison. The victim will then remain asleep while the Coincrit
feeds upon its body fluids. Coincrits are easily destroyed by extreme
heat or cold, however this will usually harm the victim as well and
could cause scaring.

**** They jump when they smell/see food?
**** TD 20 poison versus sleep. Inflict 6 injury per hour
**** Victim gets a roll every hour at -5 to try and wake up
**** without outside help

Species Name: Flesh Leech
Cultures: None / Groups
Average Height: 0.1m Long
Average Weight: 0.05 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 1 year
Attribute Adjustments: STR -2, BEU -3
Body Points: 4
Speed: Swift
Gifts: Acid secretion
Foibles: 
Description: The Flesh Leech looks similar to
its cousin a blood leech but larger. They inhabit damp dark places and
can feed off nearly anything but prefer living flesh. The flesh leech
usually attacks by dropping on a victim and attaching to it. They will
then begin to secrete a mild acid that does damage. Salt placed on a
flesh leech will cause it to detach.

**** Acid 1 point injury per 5 minutes?

Species Name: Flesh Maggot
Cultures: None / Groups
Average Height: 1cm
Average Weight: 2 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 30 days
Attribute Adjustments:  INT -1
Body Points: 5
Speed: Slow
Gifts: Flesh burrowing.
Foibles: 
Description: Flesh maggots are huge maggots that burrow into
flesh. They can live in any kind of refuse and after 30 days turn
into giant flies. They will quickly burrow into a victim and head for
the heart in about 60 minutes the victim will die from heart failure.
The burrowing inflicts 1 injury point per minute and the entry point
is 25% likely to become infected. A person trained in medicine can
administer rose hip wine and dill weed to kill these maggots however
after administering the cure it will take about 5 minutes to take
effect. The victim must rest until their injury from the maggots is
healed or chance internal bleeding.

**** I assume the person has to come into contact with the Maggot

Species Name: Frog; Giant
Cultures: None / Groups
Average Height: 2m
Average Weight: 2 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 3 years
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, WIL +1, INT -1, BEU -2, 
Body Points: 15
Speed: Swift hopping
Gifts: Sticky tounge (+4 attack bonus) is used to bind prey.
Foibles: 
Description: Giant frogs live anywhere their
smaller family members do. They will use their tongue to hold a victim
until they can swallow it whole at which point damage begins (as
suffactation). They will attack fiercely if hungry but prefer smaller
prey. Groups have been known to strangle small horses and then ripe
parts off to digest.

**** The tongue has a STR of 8? Player can make a contested roll to
**** break free.

Species Name: Ghoul
Cultures: Solitary or pairs
Average Height: 1.5m
Average Weight: 90 kg
Size Rating: Average
Lifespan: 200+ years
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, WIL +1, INT -1, PER -1
Body Points: 30
Speed: Average
Gifts: Strength, Feel no pain
Foibles: Eating flesh of the dead, insane.
Description: Ghouls are creatures that consume the
flesh of the dead to sustain their undead' lives indefinitely, this
however causes an insanity and deformity. They slowly start to loose
their appearance and turn into creatures with gray rotting flesh, fangs
no body hair and flesh less limbs. They emit a foul smell that can be
noticed from 10m away. They hate all living creatures as their envy
turns to insanity, and will kill on sight any creature. It is believed
they where first formed from a holy mans curse placed on a man who eat
the flesh of his dead family. Any creature that eats Ghoul flesh then
dies and becomes one. This has started the practice of burning their
corpse. Ghouls are very strong about twice thier original strength
and feel no pain. They will fight until destroyed without becoming
unconscious.

**** Why would anyone eat a Ghoul's flesh?
**** or do you mean if a Ghoul takes a chunk out of you?
**** what species can become ghouls? just humaniods?

Species Name: Hausguest or Cottage Sprite
Cultures: Solitary
Average Height: 25cm
Average Weight: 12kg
Size Rating: Small -6
Lifespan: 250 years
Attribute Adjustments: Agi +3, Dex +2, Str -3, Aur -1, Per -1, Wil +2
Body Points: 15 or « Human
Speed: Swift 3.5 m/s
Gifts: Turn Invisible when attacked, Fly, Swift
Foibles: Obsessive compulsively neat, Can't intentionally cause physical harm
Description: Hausguests live solitary
lives, however between the ages of 20 and 50 they will mate once every
5 years. This usually produces 1 or 2 young which the mother will raise
for 3 to 4 years. The Hausguest is an indoor cousin of the sprite. This
creature abhors filth and will be constantly cleaning. This is always
done when others can not observe them or their work. The Cottage Sprite
dwells in solitary places of man made' construction, preferring more
moderate climates. They are very fast and can fly. The Houseguest fells
it is its task in life to keep homes well kept, tidy and clean. When the
Hausguest reaches maturity (50 years) it selects a place as its home and
will spend the rest of its life there or until its home is destroyed.
The Hausguest comes in all shades of brown from straw to near black, it
is humanoid in shape except for very long digits, wings, bumpy skin,
and shiny yellow cat like eyes. The Hausguest will never actively harm
any living thing, even when attacked it will turn invisible and fly
away. However, they can become a pain as they tidy up as they see fit.
Hey, how did my shield get in the closet?', Who put my daggers in the
cupboard?', Where did my spell book go?'.

**** I need one of these :)

Species Name: Hornet
Cultures: Nest
Average Height: 1cm Long
Average Weight: 0.005 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 1 year
Attribute Adjustments: AGI +2, WIL +2,  INT -2
Body Points: 2
Speed: Swift
Gifts: Fly, Sting
Foibles: 
Description: Hornets will attack any creature coming
near the nest. Thier sting causes great pain and any stung may drop what
is in hand and flee.

Species Name: Iron Cobra
Cultures: None
Average Height: 1.5m Long
Average Weight: 10 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: None
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, AGI -1, INT -3
Body Points: 35
Speed: Average
Gifts: Iron Body Armor, Paralyzing Bite, Hypnotic Stare
Foibles: Loud Squeaky Movement, Mindless
Description: Iron Cobras are mechanical
creatures created by clerics to protect their sacred places. These
robots appear as cobra skeletons with red glowing eyes. They are
programmed to attack all who enter an area who don't speak the pass word
to deactivate them. Their red eyes will cause any looking at them to go
into a hypnotic trance until pain is inflicted on them. They may poision
bite up to 3 times and this causes mild paralyzataion.

**** Paralyze TD 15, hypnotize TD 20

Species Name: Kobold
Cultures: Large Bands or Tribes
Average Height: 1m
Average Weight: 50kg
Size Rating: Small 
Lifespan: 80 years
Attribute Adjustments: AGI +2, DEX +1, PER -1, STR -1, AUR -1, WIL -1
Body Points: 10
Speed: Average 2.0 m/s
Gifts: Torture
Foibles: Chaotic & unpredictable loyalty, color-blind.
Description: Kobolds have brown
color scales, bright green eyes, small horns, and tails. They tend to
wear bright garb do to the fact they are color blind. Most tribes will
have a military structure to them with a chief as leader, this group is
more for saftey in numbers and Kobolds will often disobey orders' and
suffer torture for thier lack of loyalty.

Species Name: Rat
Cultures: Nest
Average Height: Ordinary 0.2m Long / Giant 0.5m Long
Average Weight: Ordinary 1 kg / Giant  2.5 kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 2 years
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, AGI +1, WIL -1, INT -1
Body Points: Ordinary 5 / Giant 10
Speed: Swift
Gifts: Speed
Foibles: Mindless
Description: Rats are very aggressive and will
attack without fear if hungry. Their bite causes 2 (4 for giant rats)
points of damage and may (5% per bite) cause an infection. There is a 5%
chance for every rat after the first 10 of being of the giant type. Rats
are good swimmers and have been known to swim across rivers to attack
prey.

**** Why mindless?

Species Name: Siren
Cultures: Solitary
Average Height: 1.5m
Average Weight: 50kg
Size Rating: Average 
Lifespan: 200+ years
Attribute Adjustments: BEA +2, INT +1,  AUR +1, PER +1,
Body Points: 36
Speed: Average 2.0 m/s
Gifts: Touch causes love insanity, Song causes charm, Water Based, Invisibility and Polymorph
Self Spells
Foibles: Must stay incontact with water.
Description: Sirens appear as very beautiful human
women (usally naked), they have an intense hatred of human kind and its
allies, as they believe they abuse water by over taxing its bounty and
polluting it. Sirens will sing a song that causes men to be drawn to
them hypnotically as long as the song is unbroken, then touch them
causing love insanity in males
of all races. This insanity causes the lover' to protect the siren and
believe they are madly in love with her. The lover' however will not
inflict damage on their self, others however are open to attack. Sirens
may cast all water spells along with Invisibility and Polymorph Self
with a high level of proficiency. Sires like to drown their victims,
they will use what ever means necessary to defend themselves and the
water. Sirens draw their power from a water source and may never leave
it. If they should leave contact with their water source they will
suffer great pain and eventually pass out. If not kept constantly moist
they will suffer 1 point of injury every 10 minutes until dead.

**** Song 20 TD to be drawn near it, 25 TD to break free

Species Name: Skeletal Rotter
Cultures: None
Average Height: 1.5m 
Average Weight: 40 kg
Size Rating: Avarage
Lifespan: None
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, PSY +1, PER -1, INT -1
Body Points: 21
Speed: Average
Gifts: Rot touch, fear
Foibles: Mindless
Description: Skeletal
rotters are undead holy men who protect sacred areas. The mere sight of
a skeletal rotter may cause those of average psyche or below to flee in
panic (psyche check). The skeletal rotter may only be hit by silver or
magic weapons for damage, and then sharp or pointed weapons cause half
damage. Holy or unholy water (depends on cult of rotter) causes 1-10
points of damage per once. If the skeletal rotter's attack-defense roll
is more than 11 it will cause the area struck to begin to rot at a rate
of 1 pound per hour, this may be stopped by a cure or dispel magic.
Skeletal rotters will attack until destroyed at which point they will
exploded into dust that causes choking if inhaled (willpower check) that
may cause the victims to pass out for 1 or 2 minutes, or till revived.

**** TD 10 or flee

Species Name: Skunk
Cultures: Solitary
Average Height: 0.5m
Average Weight: 8kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 8 years
Attribute Adjustments: 
Body Points: 10
Speed: Average 2.0 m/s
Gifts: Stink Gas
Foibles: 
Description: Skunks live in most temperate or warm places and tend to
dwell in uninhabited areas. They may bite but prefer to use their stink
gas. Victims may pass an (Agility check) and retreat if they don't
retreat or fail the check they have been sprayed. The spay will cause
uncontrollable actions like vomitting, soiling, crying, flailing, and
screaming. In addition all clothing must be burnt and flesh, metal etc.
must be washed.

Species Name: Snake; Vampire
Cultures: Small groups
Average Height: 0.5m Long
Average Weight: 20kg
Size Rating: Small
Lifespan: 7 years
Attribute Adjustments: AGI +2
Body Points: 10
Speed:  Swift 
Gifts: Attachment, Hard to perceive
Foibles: 
Description: Vampire snakes dwell in damp dark
places and are colorless transparent (PER -3). They move very fast and
if they score a hit will attach and begin to suck blood. As they fill
the blood can be seen though their transparency filling their body. They
suck till filled (about 1 liter) then detach.

Species Name: Spider; Giant
Cultures: Solitary
Average Height: 1.5m Long
Average Weight: 45kg
Size Rating: Large
Lifespan: 5 years
Attribute Adjustments: AGI +1, DEX +2, STR+1, INT -1, WIL -1
Body Points: 25
Speed: Average 2.0 m/s, Swift in Web
Gifts: Webs, Poision
Foibles: Fear Fire
Description: Giant spiders are web builders who have paralyzing
poision. The webs are hard to see (PER check -2) and tough to break (STR
check). The spider moves swiftly in the web and will rap its victim and
drag it into the center of the web to drink its blood.

**** Paralyze TD 18, web STR 13

Species Name: Spider; Snatcher
Cultures: Solitary
Average Height: 2m Long
Average Weight: 50kg
Size Rating: Large
Lifespan: 7 years
Attribute Adjustments: AGI +1, DEX +2, STR+1, INT -1, WIL -1
Body Points: 30
Speed:  Swift 
Gifts: Bungy Cord like fiber (Surprise), Poison
Foibles: 
Description: Snatcher spiders tend to dwell in high places
like cave tops and have paralyzing poison. They blend in well to their
surroundings coming in all colors, they tend to be very hairy except for
their underside which is plated. They spin a bungy like cord and drop on
victims, if a hit is scored the victim is snatched and the spider will
then try it inject its poison. If attacked with long sharp weapons while
dropping the spider will cut its cord and try a more direct approach or
cease hostility. Damage done in this manner will gain an advantage.

Species Name: Toad; Giant
Cultures: Small Groups
Average Height: 1m
Average Weight: 60kg
Size Rating: Small 
Lifespan: 3 years
Attribute Adjustments:  STR +1, INT -2
Body Points: 15
Speed: Average 2.0 m/s
Gifts: Hop
Foibles: Fear of Fire
Description: Gaint toads are simualar
to normal toads but larger and much more aggressive. They can hop 5m
high and 20m long and still attack while doing so.

Species Name: Worb
Cultures: Bandit Packs 
Average Height: 1m
Average Weight: 60kg
Size Rating: Small 
Lifespan: 50 years
Attribute Adjustments: STR +1, WIL +2, PER +1, BEU -2,  INT -2
Body Points: 10
Speed: Average 2.0 m/s
Gifts: Sword Use +1 Ability, No Moral Check
Foibles: Fear of Fire,
Description: Worbs are small humanoid bandits of
low intellect that will fight without regard to safety. Believed to be
once human these creatures never evolved or de-evolved into something
more animal than man. Worbs are pale skinned, fanged, with dark patchy
hair on their face and head and stumpy limbs. Worbs have little use for
clothing and believe it is ridiculous. Worbs have no known language and
communicate' in a grunt form. They have an intense fear of fire and will
not come within 10m of it. Worbs are fond of shiny objects like coins or
gems. A good description of the bands are wolf like packs that hunt prey
as food or a source of wealth. (Any shiny object is wealth to a Worb.)

Species Name: Worm Corpse
Cultures: None
Average Height: 1.5m 
Average Weight: 80 kg
Size Rating: Avarage
Lifespan: None
Attribute Adjustments: STR +2, FIT +2, AGI -1 , AUR -1,  PSY -2, BEU -4
Body Points: 100% of Corpse + 1/worm; 
Speed: Slow
Gifts: Fear, Worms
Foibles: Mindless, Fire
Description: Worm Corpse are not undead in and of themselves rather
the worms that feed on them are. The spirits of the unfaithful are
transformed into worms and punished by being forced to exist' on the
dead. The worm corpse is animated by these worms to seek new feeding
grounds. The touch of a worm corpse may cause fear (save 2d10+PSY+2>10),
however on attack score (- defense score) of greater then 15 a worm
has attached to a victim. The victim must then stop and remove the
worm and burn it or cover with holy water. (Cutting makes 2 worms). If
not removed each 6 seconds after the victim must save (PSY) or become
mindless and let to worm into a body opening. Once this happens the
victim will lose life force (1 year / minute) until dead and become a
worm corpse. One worm most remain in corpse to keep it annimated buring
a worm corpes will cause all worms to flee.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

looks pretty good overall

i will try to be more active again once i catch up on stuff
and feel a bit better (starting to come down with something :( )

Del

