Path: news.polymtl.ca!feed.umontreal.ca!newsflash.concordia.ca!news.nstn.ca!ott.istar!istar.net!van.istar!van-bc!ddsw1!news.mcs.net!usenet
From: jhahn@nslsilus.org (Aardy R. DeVarque)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.dnd-util,rec.games.frp.dnd
Subject: Re: Free AD&D Software
Date: Sun, 07 Jul 1996 20:42:51 GMT
Organization: Aardy's Aardvark Emporium
Lines: 270
Message-ID: <31e02058.146510954@news.mcs.com>
References: <31D760E0.3376@Grci.com> <31dabef4.3413131@news.direct.ca> <4rfg65$o25@news1.ni.net> <4rh320$ou4@iac2.ltec.net> <4rij4i$gbm@news1.ni.net> <4rjm2a$1p2@iac2.ltec.net> <4rkg9u$t0p@news1.ni.net> <4rkplb$kea@iac2.ltec.net> <4rmbi6$1mn@news1.ni.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ppl.pr.mcs.net
X-Newsreader: Forte Agent .99e/16.227
Xref: news.polymtl.ca alt.games.frp.dnd-util:3635 rec.games.frp.dnd:100657

Hi, bos & girls!  Uncle Aardy here, and I see that it's time to trot this
little lovely out again for your pleasure, enjoyment, and edification.  Read
away, and please try to check out some of the listed doc's in "For Further
Information" before posting a knee-jerk-reflex defensive response.

Aardy R. DeVarque
Feudalism: Serf & Turf
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                               COPYRIGHT & TSR

                           Written by Joel A. Hahn

                               Version: Alpha
                           Last changed: 06/26/96

[Note: I am not a lawyer, and none of this should be taken as hard and
fast legal advice.  See an attorney for that.  Nor am I affiliated with TSR
in any way.]

    Since August of 1994, TSR has been enforcing a company policy about
what sort of AD&D material is and is not allowed on the Internet, based
on copyright law (Title 17 of the U.S. Code [referred to here as 17 USC], 
as well as the Berne Convention and other copyright-related treaties) and 
trademark law.  For information on Trademarks & TSR, see the companion 
document to this one.  Here is a quick thumbnail version of TSR's 
copyright policy, which I will then expand upon:

 1. No scans of TSR books or artwork, and no lengthy quotes of TSR's 
    published material may distributed without TSR's permission.
 2. No game accessories that are based directly on AD&D and obviously
    require AD&D for use as is may be distributed without TSR's
    and the author's permission.
 3. If it doesn't fall in categories 1 or 2, it can be distributed to your
    heart's content in any manner available to you.

    The first category is what most people think of when they hear
the term "copyright infringement"--that is, outright physical copying.
As outlined in copyright laws around the world, it is an author's right
to be the sole distributor of his material for as long as he retains
the copyright on the material.
    
    The second category has caused the rise of numerous flames on the 
net.  Not by its existence, but because there is some question on
exactly what is and is not included.
    This category is based on the concept of a "derivative work."  
    
    A "derivative work" is a work based upon one or more preexisting 
    works, such as a translation, musical arrangement, dramatization,
    fictionalization, motion picture version, sound recording, art
    reproduction, abridgment, condensation, or any other form in which
    a work may be recast, transformed, or adapted.  A work consisting
    of editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other 
    modifications, which, as a whole, represent an original work of
    authorship, is a "derivative work".
                                            --17 USC 101
    
    That is, any work based on or derived from an existing work, 
containing enough new material to be considered more than just an 
outright copy, but still not wholly original.  According to copyright 
law, only the author may create & distribute derivative material for as 
long as he retains the copyright on the original material.

Rights of an author:
    An author of a copyrighted work has several exclusive rights, rights
which only the author may exercise.  They are:

        (1) to reproduce the copyrighted work in copies or phonorecords;
        (2) to prepare derivative works based upon the copyrighted work;
        (3) to distribute copies or phonorecords of the copyrighted work
      to the public by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental,
      lease, or lending;
        (4) in the case of literary, musical, dramatic, and choreographic
      works, pantomimes, and motion pictures and other audiovisual works,
      to perform the copyrighted work publically; and
        (5) in the case of literary, musical, dramatic, and choreographic
      works, pantomimes, and pictorial, graphic, or sculptural works, 
      including the individual images of a motion picture of other
      audiovisual work, to display the copyrighted work publically.
                                            --17 USC 106

International copyright:
    Due to many treaties, especially the Berne Convention and the UCC,
almost every nation has a reciprocal copyright deal with the United
States and each other.  The minimum standards set forth in those
documents, which each signatory nation must fulfill in their laws, include
all of the legal ideas quoted above.  In other words, just because you don't
live in the United States, that doesn't mean that this doesn't apply to
you--because it does.  Unless you live in somewhere  like North Korea, your
country not only has pretty much identical standards (many have more
stringent standards), but has also agreed to treat all works copyrighted in
the U.S. as if they were copyrighted in your country and to aid most
prosecution of violators of that copyright.

Exceptions to all of the above:
    If you have legally purchased a copy of an author's material, you
can do whatever you like with it, including make copies and create
derivative works, as long as you keep everything to yourself.  If you sell
or give a copy of any of this subsequent material to anyone, you must 
either include the original and all of your other copies & derivative
works, or totally destroy everything you don't sell or give to that 
person.

    Example 1:
    You run out and buy a copy of the Dungeon Master's Guide.  However,
    you find that it is difficult to keep the book open to the page you
    want while running a game; also, you are concerned about getting
    pizza and cola stains on your new book.  To alleviate these problems, 
    you photocopy the book, punch all the pages, and put them in a 
    three-ring binder.  A few years later, TSR releases a new edition of
    the game.  You decide to sell your old edition DMG.  By law, you must 
    also either include the photocopies or destroy them.  On the other 
    hand, if you had decided to sell or give away the photocopies, you 
    then have to either include or destroy the original.

    Example 2:
    After finishing reading a recent fantasy book that you bought, you 
    are so moved by the author's creation that you decide to sit down
    right now and write a sequel.  That's just fine and dandy, but you 
    can't give or sell a copy of your sequel to anyone without also
    giving or selling the original book and your personal copy of your
    sequel, or without destroying everything you didn't give away or sell
    to that person.

    If the material has passed into the public domain, anyone can do 
whatever they wish to with it.  Almost everything published before 1920 is
currently in the public domain, as are many things published since then.
Everything automatically passes into the public domain after a certain
amount of time.  In the U.S., this is currently 75 years for most
material.  No TSR books or modules are currently public domain.
    If the author wishes, he can sell the copyright to someone else.  The
author retains the right to be identified as the "author," but the new
owner of the copyright is the one who decides who can and cannot make
and distribute copies.  TSR is not about to sell out at this point.
    If the copying or creating of derivative works is done in the process 
of using the original in the manner it was intended, then it is not 
illegal to do so.  This means that it is just fine to create supplements
for use with your campaign and use them in-game.  TSR actively encourages
this, as a matter of fact.
    If only a tiny portion of the original is taken, or if copying or
creation of a derivative work is done, for example, for the purposes of
teaching, criticism, or discussion then it may be a "fair use."

    ...The fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by
    reproduction in copies of phonorecords or by any other means
    specified in that section, for purposes such as criticism, comment,
    news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom
    use), scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of copyright.
    In determining whether the use made of a work in any particular case
    is a fair use the factors to be considered shall include--
        (1) the purpose and character of the use, including whether such
      use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational
      purposes;
        (2) the nature of the copyrighted work;
        (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation
      to the copyrighted work as a whole; and
        (4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value
      of the copyrighted work.
                                            --17 USC 107

    Even lawyers and judges regularly have a problem determining exactly 
where the line is drawn for what is and is not fair use, though; it is
a very tricky area.  In any case distribution of most user-created AD&D 
accessories does not constitute fair use.
    If the author wishes, he can allow others to exercise any of the 
rights normally reserved only to himself (as outlined above), on whatever 
terms the two sides agree to.  Those terms can include whatever conditions 
the author can think up.

    Example:
    In the music industry, it is not uncommon for shipping problems to
    delay a shipment of sheet music from arriving in time for a musical
    group to have enough time to practice it sufficiently before a 
    performance.  In such situations, the conductor will usually contact 
    the publisher and request permission to make photocopies of the music 
    so the group can begin rehearsing.  In many cases, the publisher will 
    allow this, on the condition that all such copies are collected after 
    each rehearsal and that all such copies are completely destroyed when 
    the real copies arrive.  If the conductor does not agree to the 
    conditions, or if the publisher decides not to allow this, then the 
    conductor is out of luck; he'll just have to wait until the shipment 
    arrives.

    TSR does not normally allow distribution of outright copies, though 
they may make individual exceptions.  This is the same for most gaming
companies.
    TSR has issued a blanket permission statement allowing distribution 
of derivative works via the Internet, but it counts only if you follow 
their conditions.  If you do not like their conditions, you either have 
to change your material so that it no longer qualifies as derivative, or 
be content to keep it to yourself, like the conductor in the above 
example.  TSR's conditions are pretty much as follows:

 1. Distribution is restricted to TSR's areas on AOL and GEnie,
    the ftp.mpgn.com FTP site, and any other areas that TSR may
    license in the future to carry such materials.
 2. The files must conform to TSR's Code of Ethics.  (Basically, no 
    overly graphic violence, no obscenities, no graphic sex or discussion
    of sex & sexual orientations, and no "real-world" religions.)
 3. The files must include TSR's disclaimer, a copy of which is provided
    at the various distribution sites.  The disclaimer essentially
    boils down to a declaration that the file can only be distributed
    outside of TSR-licensed sites with permission from both TSR and the
    author.
 4. No restrictions are placed regarding distribution of derivative
    works via Usenet or listservs/majordomos.

    The individual authors (in this case, companies) can put any 
restrictions they desire on the distribution of derivative works, and to 
my knowledge, not one has placed absolutely no restrictions on this 
distribution; some just have fewer or more restrictions than others.  (In 
many cases, the only restriction is that the files be distributed free of 
charge.)

Further distribution:
    Once a file that requires the TSR disclaimer makes its way to a 
licensed site, then it cannot be distributed any further except to 
other licensed sites without the permission of both the author and TSR.
This means that TSR cannot take all the files in a licensed ftp site,
print them up, and publish them as "The Complete Net Handbook" without
the express permission of each and every author (unless an author
included a blanket statement of his own stating that anyone can 
distribute the file in question).
    Also note that if TSR, for some ungodly reason, decides to 
renegotiate the licenses with each and every one of the licensed sites in 
order to turn the sites into a for-pay access network, it is the author's 
right to terminate his permission which allows the site to distribute his 
files--the site must then delete the files or be guaranteed to lose a 
lawsuit.  If TSR were to try this, they would almost certainly either 
a) get told where to stick it by the licensed sites, or b) end up with a 
bunch of sites completely devoid of everything except files that TSR 
themselves created, and which die due to the competition of the free 
sites with not-quite-AD&D-but-still-compatible files that TSR has no say
in.

For further information:
    If you want to hear TSR's position on what they consider to be
"derivative works," then write to TSRInc@aol.com, or go to TSR's 
information page on the World Wide Web at <http://users.aol.com/tsrinc>. 
If you want to hear other people's opinions, go to
<http://cs.ucr.edu/~jimv/> or ftp the file TSR_TM.ZIP from
ftp://ftp.umd.umich.edu\pub\frp\dnd, unzip the file, and run the file 
TSR_TM.EXE.  This latter method runs only on IBM clones.  Note that
neither of these latter two resources has been updated recently--not that
the opinions contained therein have changed any, but some of the
circumstances and basic facts upon which those opinions are based may have.
    For the full text of 17 USC, see the Cornell law site at 
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/index.html.  For all of the U.S. 
government's circulars which explain and elaborate on 17 USC, as well as 
all the information about copyright you could ask for and more, see the 
Library of Congress' information site at http://lcweb.loc.gov/copyright.  
If you do not have World Wide Web access, but do have gopher access, try 
the Library of Congress' gopher site, marvel.loc.gov.

How to be absolutely certain that TSR will not challenge your work:
    Simple.  Don't write it specifically for AD&D.  Write so that the
average gamer can be reasonably certain that the document is not intended
specifically and solely for use with AD&D, or isn't a story that is
patently obvious that it was written from an AD&D game session.  Don't 
use creatures, settings, characters, powers, descriptions and so forth 
that first appeared in TSR products, and/or just don't use game terms 
at all.  If you're not sure, don't use it.
    This does not mean that these are the only works that do not fall
within the purview of TSR's policy, as they aren't.  However, as a whole,
such works definitely will not be challenged by TSR in any way, whereas
works which "push the envelope" do run that risk.  If you don't mind a
little risk, then by all means, try something a little closer to the line
TSR has drawn.  

***End FAQ***
