Path: news.polymtl.ca!feed.umontreal.ca!newsflash.concordia.ca!news.nstn.ca!ott.istar!istar.net!van.istar!west.istar!n1van.istar!van-bc!unixg.ubc.ca!info.ucla.edu!nnrp.info.ucla.edu!agate!newsxfer2.itd.umich.edu!newsfeed.internetmci.com!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!news.cyberstore.ca!usenet
From: wgrant@saltspring.com (Warren Grant)
Newsgroups: rec.games.design
Subject: Re: What do you think an FRPG Combat mechanic should contain?
Date: Sat, 24 Aug 1996 08:41:58 GMT
Organization: Cyberstore Systems Inc.
Lines: 122
Message-ID: <4vmf94$r8c@scipio.cyberstore.ca>
References: <4va95c$lgj@scipio.cyberstore.ca> <321EAD82.7289@sirius.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 204.244.138.54
X-Newsreader: Forte Free Agent 1.0.82

Gil Colgate <gcolgate@sirius.com> wrote:


>Although the games were too simple in terms of combat, the various
>2D8 games in the recently failed Space Gamer magazine were quite 
>interesting. One thing they had which I liked was incentives to
>use different skills in the same battle. Too many "realistic"
>games are too dull.

        The problem as I see it, is the fact that a characters chance of
success is  generally very specifically defined for any one skill use,
and therefore they actually have a "best attack option" to select. If
the definitions of chance of success were a tad less predictable (or
more closely tied to the situation at any point in  a combat) then
differing skill uses would be more likely. It does lend itself to
potentially create a "golf bag" skills system though.

> [Examples snipped to save space]

>Ideally the game system should be able to handle both light hearted
>cinematic fights, battles of tactics and manuever, and battles
>of attrition and damage. Note that magic will be different in 
>different battles too: I know a game that allows freeform magic:
>they charge different amounts of spell points for the same effect
>depending on the situation (I.E. you can ehchant the bar bouncer and 
>ake him dance all night, incapacitating him offensively, but you 
>can't do the same thing to the enemy knight on the battlefield for
>the same price).

        These seem to me to be more a matter of how the GM plays the mechanics
themselves. I would think that tactics and maneuver as opposed to
attrition and damage would be a natural outgrowth of the situation
combined with a flexible set of mechanics.
        For instance, in one of the sample combats I tried with my system, 1
ubermensch type fighter faced two lesser quality fighters, one of
which was armed with a crossbow. For the UM character the battle
consisted of defeating or incapacitating the fighter while attempting
to avoid being hit by the "crossbowperson". For the other side, it was
keep the UM away from the crossbowman until such time as the crossbow
can be used to injure him and give us the edge, in the meantime defend
like mad. (The UM won the battle handily: he was better qualified and
skilled in his weapons, and highly maneuverable. He wasted the fighter
and the crossbowman ran away.).

>It strikes me that in cinematic fights a player should get a bonus
>to use a different, creative, and off the wall methods to dispatch each 
>enemy. 
>In a battle of tactics positioning and timing should be the ingrediants 
>to victory. Miniatures are very helpful in this sort of battle.
>In a battle of attrition high stats and good rolls should be the
>way to win. 

        Yes, I agree with the first point. In my system the GM has great
flexibility in assigning modifiers to any situation or skill roll.
Certainly this includes the ability to grant positive mods or extra
successes for particularly clever moves.
        The roundless system I have developed creates an interesting dichotomy
of attack and defend/recover. Each attack, move, defense (shield
skill, parry, dodge) etc has an Action Point cost which is subtracted
from the characters AP or Action Pool (this does not involve any math,
we use glass beads we used for Magic The Gathering life points
markers, and simply move spent APs to the fatigue pile, or recover
them as appropriate). When a combat begins all combatants roll their
Initiative (method irrelevant to this discussion) and the one with the
highest result may move first. This individual may perform any of a
number of specified actions, paying the APs concerned, or may pass to
the next highest intiative individual (character or NPC), who repeats
the process. If you pass, you may recover an amount of APs equal to
your RR or Recovery Rate or up to your max APs whichever is lowest.If
you are targeted by an attack, you may pay the APs to parry, dodge,
block (with shield etc) or any other Reaction your character might
take. 
        A hit to an area results not only in wounds, but also loss of APs
depending on the area struck. This usually results in the target
choosing to recover as their next move.
        What results from this is a fluid mechanic in which players (and the
GM as NPCs) alternately attack and defend, or recover points (take a
breather to gasp and recover their wind, come out of the shock from an
attack etc). Its a little rules intensive (not too bad), midling
cinematic, and requires lots of D10 rolls, but its fairly fast, and
reasonably realistic.


>Naturally, players might choose one of these kinds of battles
>1) I ignore his dancing around. He's only first level. I hit him again
>with my sword... (turns tactics into attrition)...

        This will always happen, since it depends on the players choice of
action, and any system which forced the player to do otherwise would
be IMHO too restrictive. 

>2) I don't care if he's an evil high priest. I toss a cream pie right
>in his face! ... (A feeble attempt to turn another kind of battle
>into a cinematic battle)

        If you include the Three stooges in your notion of cinematic
(personally I never found them funny even once), when I think of
"cinematic" in this context I see more like the battle scenes in
Braveheart.

>3) "I climb up the ropes and drop, holding my greatsword between my
>legs, onto the dragons back." (Trying to use either tactics or 
>cinematics here....)

        This would be easily playable in my system, with the GM providing spur
of the moment mods to the attack.

>And of course, the referee can set the tone a lot too.

        Its the subject of another series of postings, but I have elected to
give the GM a strong ability to affect any situation, including combat
by providing mods as they see fit, and by requiring a set amount of
successes for any given act to succeed, based on the GMs perception of
how difficult that action would be to accomplish given the current
situtation. GMs who have no difficulty with doing this should enjoy
this system (If I ever finish it, and if I get the thing published
that is) -:>

Thanks for some interesting ideas though.

Warren
