Path: news.polymtl.ca!feed.umontreal.ca!newsflash.concordia.ca!news.nstn.ca!ott.istar!istar.net!van.istar!west.istar!news-w.ans.net!newsfeeds.ans.net!chi-news.cic.net!newspump.sol.net!spool.mu.edu!howland.erols.net!math.ohio-state.edu!news.cyberstore.ca!usenet
From: wgrant@saltspring.com (Warren Grant)
Newsgroups: rec.games.design
Subject: Re: What do you think an FRPG Combat mechanic should contain?
Date: Thu, 29 Aug 1996 17:46:17 GMT
Organization: Cyberstore Systems Inc.
Lines: 72
Message-ID: <504l2k$gq3@scipio.cyberstore.ca>
References: <4va95c$lgj@scipio.cyberstore.ca> <1996Aug21.124718.7881@news.iup.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 204.244.138.43
X-Newsreader: Forte Free Agent 1.0.82

ppaqebb@grove.iup.edu (Syielvasj Shratdeshm) wrote:

>    As a player, I want rules that fairly and quickly decide combat.
>As a GM, I want rules that quickly and fairly decide combat.

        So speed of play - undoubtedly to enable the pace of the combat to be
maintained rather than constantly interrupted - balanced with enough
accuracy that the outcome is predictable to a player and therefore
fair. Would that be a reasonable summary?

>>What aspects do you think it should include?

>    Wounds, which implies also hit locations.  Wound rules that lead to
>an avalanche effect (penalties from being hit first being a virtual death
>sentence) need to be avoided, however.

        I do have hit locations, and 6 levels of wounds. Hit locations are
general (Head, Body, Arms, Legs) rather than specific, because I
decided that greater detail, while entertaining to some, did not add
anything to the nature of the combat. By this I mean, a hit to any of
those 4 locations effects a combat in a specific manner. Greater
detail in terms of locations would not alter this appreciably, and
would add considerably to the time it takes to resolve a blow.
        The wounds do generate a modifier to a character or PCs ability to hit
their opponent, otherwise there would be no value to injuring your
opponent. However, lower level injuries are not crippling per se, and
I have seen many fights where the individual who is hit and injured
first came back to win the battle. Severe injuries on the other hand
are more likely to ensure the injured party looses the battle. This
seems to be to be quite a realistic outcome. Most combatants in my
system do not actually die from their blows, but rather get wounded to
the point where surrender looks good. Of course, in many conflicts
this will not be an option, but then I am talking of one on one
battles, and the multiplayer battle enable uninjured parties to cover
for those who are.

>>How much is too much detail?

>    Critical hits, fatigue rules, and multiple charts, according to
>my experience.  Tactical wargames can be fun, but are an intrusion
>in a session of role-playing.

        I do not really have any of these elements in place, and there are no
charts used in combat whatsoever (other than a single simple hit
location chart which is on every character sheet)

>(or worse still, the reverse).  My inexperience fighting with a
>poleaxe should hinder warriors I play no more than my inexperience
>calling bolts of lightning from the sky should hinder my mages.
>I do, however, need some choice of whether to fight aggressively
>or cautiously just as I would need some choice between offensive
>and defensive spells.  Best for me are a few straightforward options
>and plenty of abstraction.

        The actual use of combat skills is abstracted enough that your
personal knowledge of the weapon and its use is not a hindrance at all
really. You do have the option of fighting aggressively, or more
defensively, as well as cooperatively with others on your side. You
have a limited number of actions you can take which provide variety,
but are under no constraints as to which actions you choose to make
under most circumstances. Resolving a blow does take longer than in
AD&D (tm) but a lot less than in RoleMaster or other systems of a
similar nature. I have tried to ensure the abstract element is present
enough that the statistical odds are the deciding factor combined with
luck and intelligence.
        I have a friend who is a statistician with one of the lottery
corporations, and so have a complete 25 page analysis of the odds of
any combination of skills and abilities. Very useful. Thanks Dave!

Warren Grant
