Path: news.polymtl.ca!feed.umontreal.ca!newsflash.concordia.ca!newsfeed.pitt.edu!gatech!enews.sgi.com!news.sgi.com!news.msfc.nasa.gov!newsfeed.internetmci.com!in3.uu.net!sun.sirius.com!usenet
From: Gil Colgate <gcolgate@sirius.com>
Newsgroups: rec.games.design
Subject: Re: Laws of Magic
Date: Thu, 29 Aug 1996 00:47:30 -0700
Organization: Sirius Connections
Lines: 106
Message-ID: <32254B12.55D1@sirius.com>
References: <4vovo5$cde@scipio.cyberstore.ca> <3440.6813T927T2860@execpc.com> <5022lh$nt@scipio.cyberstore.ca>
Reply-To: gcolgate@sirius.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: ppp073-sf1.sirius.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 3.0 (Win95; I)

Warren Grant wrote:
> 
> jeffsj@execpc.com (Jeffery S. Jones) wrote:
> 
> >  An excellent source.  For gaming-oriented material, there are two good books,
> >both unfortunately long out of print.  Authentic Thaumaturgy, from Chaosium
> >circa 1979, a generic discussion of the underlying principles behind magic as
> >applied to RPGs, written by Phillip Bonewits, whose other books on magic (such
> >as Real Magic) are also worth reading, and the 1st edition C&S Sourcebook #1,
> >which had a discussion of the laws of magic, as applied in Chivalry & Sorcery,
> >written with reference to the book above, and quite good in its general
> >explanation of key laws in magic.

Here is a discussion of what I remember about that ancient book.
 

"Magical thinking" is a fundamental way that people think... you 
can see it in the marketing of television shows. Star Trek:Voyager
tries to be a success... so it borrows props, ideas, and items
from two previously successful shows, in the hope that this will
enable it also to score a hit with the public.

Some of Bonewitz's laws were:

Personification: giving an inanimate object personality,
anthromorphizing
Contagion: things that were once in contact are still connected by a
magical thread
Similarity: similar things are connected
Identification: pretending to be someone you are not by dressing up,
acting, connecting
to a celebrity
Negation: using the opposite idea of what you are trying to get across
Intimacy: having intimate knowledge or contact with the victim
Names: knowing the name of the target. 
Knowledge: knowing special important information, such as it helps to
have 
studied anatomy if you want to give someone heartburn
Evocation: calling beings from outside to help you
Invocation: calling beings from inside to help you...I'm not sure why
you need two laws...
Words and Symbols: Certain symbols and words have become imbued with
power, and can be used 
and others...these are just the ones I can remember.

Basically the player would make a recipe, list his props, and discuss
how each law applied,
the ref would add up all the laws, applying and average of +3-8% for
each use, and this
would be the chance it would work. In practice, you have to limit the
number of times
the player might apply a given law (similarity is especially easy),
giving a lower percentage each time.
To get power from a spell, a person would have to use his own energy, 
or tap power from ley lines, dieties, other planes, etc. Tapping is a
powerfully fun idea to play with. 
It was handed as a gamble: you'd invest a certain number of your own
power points, and if the tap
was successful, you'd get a multiple of that investment back.
Personification is another fun one... it means conjuring a fireball
which has a mind of 
it's own is easier than conjuring one that you have complete control
over...


Note that the main problem with magic, is that these laws, such as
similarity, depend on the
beholder's mental state. A sufficiently confused and schizophrenic
individual can imagine all
sorts of non-existent connections between things to cast powerful
spells... of course, you
could assume an objective reality (many ancient people did.. the eye of
God) or you could just
let insane individuals be slightly more powerful at magic, provided they
also roleplayed
crazier in non-magic situations.

It might also be good to apply negative twists to the magic for using
certain props or laws...
it gives you a +3, but taints the magic in a certain direction....


It's interesting to see how the laws of magic, as listed above, apply to
marketing and advertising:
they do to a broad extent. You'd just have to add the laws of
Repetition, Graphic Quality, and Audio Quality
to see how powerful a new ad campaign might be....

One last problem: this itemization of magic involves a lot of work: I
think you'd have to be in college
to have players with enough time to design each spell they want to use
individually.

P.S. Bonewitz also had a list of talents for the players to choose from
that would determine their basic
spell ability: stuff like Pyrokinesis. This means two player's spell
books are unlikely to be the same..
things have different meanings for them, they have different props, and
they have different talents.
When I played this (yes, in college) every player had magical power.
Some players invented spells
to increase their fighting ability (with recipes like "Insult enemy,
Shout war cry, raise axe, praise Crom, attack enemy, axe has rune of
smashing on it,  etc... "). It was a fun campaign. It ended, naturally,
with magical escalation and overkill and the destruction of the moon....
