Path: news.polymtl.ca!feed.umontreal.ca!newsflash.concordia.ca!news.dal.ca!usenet.logical.net!news.idt.net!enews.sgi.com!news.corp.sgi.com!news.sgi.com!news-out.internetmci.com!newsfeed.internetmci.com!news.otenet.gr!usenet
From: "George Chatzipetros" <neon@mail.otenet.gr>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.dnd-util,alt.games.frp.live-action
Subject: TRANSENDENCE
Date: Thu, 8 May 1997 17:21:46 +0300
Organization: OTEnet user - GREECE
Lines: 120
Message-ID: <5ktkjr$b943@athserv.otenet.gr>
NNTP-Posting-Host: athe08p09.otenet.gr
X-Newsreader: Microsoft Outlook Express 4.71.0544.0
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE Engine V4.71.0544.0

TRANSCENDENCE
A Freeware RPG soon to be released on the Net

Go http://www.geocities.com/area51/vault/8046 and blow your minds into the
21st century of role-playing.

Costing absolutely nothing (other than the meager amount of money you'll
pay to your phone company for downloading the text file), Transendence will
be a nearly complete RPG that will set new standards for Role-playing
experiences (how many times have we heard this one?). If you are tired of
light fantasy, cyberpunk, science fiction, modern day horror etc., no need
to go further! Just take a little of your worthless time and check this one
out.

Features of the game when it'll go public will include:

* An enticing world named Corahen that closely resembles Europe during the
Dark Ages, but will all the little differences required to give it a
distinct feeling.

*An intriguing background story featuring the powers of good and evil
(please, not again!) that contest for domination over the lands and people
of Corahen. Fighting their subtle and invisible war, these inpersonal
powers possess foresight powers that enable them to look into the future.
Thus, they are able to see that in one period evil will dominate Corahen,
while in another one good shall prevail. But then, a period of twilight
will come and after a point, their visions become too blurred to be
deciphered. This limit to their foresight powers, the infamous Barrier of
Foresight, terrifies the powers of evil and good. They believe that during
that period of twilight the final battle will be fought and the domination
of Corahen will be determined. Preparing for that time, the powers take
their champions and transform them into something between a human and a
spirit, maybe a dream. Unhindered by their bodies, the champions wait for
milennia until the time for the final battle arrives. Then they awaken to
find themselves in a world unwary of the secret war that will be fought.
But the champions have changed too: some of them swapped sides, while
others follow their own paths and aims. The questions to be answered are
common though: What does the Barrier of Foresight really means? Will it
really determine the future of Corahen and its inhabitants? Or will it mark
its end, bringing an apocalypse designed by whoever created the world?

* A unique system that enables the characters to play the role of the
Awakened champions, being able to possess mortals and live with them in a
symbiotic harmony. The system enables the player to play radically
different characters by possessing different persons over the campaign,
while his original character remains the same.

* Interactions in both the physical and the spirit world. Being something
like dreams, the characters can spend the day in the physical world, but
when their bodies fall asleep, they pass to the Dream World, shaped by the
dreams and imagination of the people. Both worlds are important to the
quest of the characters and are full of potential adventures.

* An easy to learn system, based on successes obtained by rolling 12-sided
dice. A character rolls as many dice as many attribute points he has and
tries to roll under a standard number (in the case of an attribute check)
or his skill value (in the case of a skill check). From this basic rule,
all the other game rules are derived, keeping the game fast and centered on
role-playing rather than dice-rolling.

* A detailed character creation system, where the player can choose  from
nearly 170 gifts and drawbacks (advantages and disadvantages) that make his
character unique, including Land Lord, Classical beauty, Plague Carrier,
Riastarhae, Magic Grounder, Looming Fate and Vampiric Body.

* Over 270 awe-inspiring spells, categorised in 23 realms of sorcery, like
the illusions of Opthalmomancy, the blood rituals of Haemomancy and the
mysterious Selenomancy magic.

* Nearly 90 glamours, mysterious archaic magic used only by the faeries of
the land, including Seduce, Afflict, Deceive and Pervert.

* Over 20 dream powers the characters can use by expending the energies
coming from the Dream World, divided in 3 categories: Manipulations,
Manifestations and Dreaming.

* Over 70 mythical creatures, derived from actual legends of Europe,
including the Kalikanjaros, the Cyhyraeth, the Fir Darrig and the Gaoth
Sidhe. Though rarely seen, these creatures can play an important part in
the players' quest.

* 9 factions the character can belong to. Factions are groups of Awakened
that have share common thoughts about how to succeed in their objectives
(eg. through politics, the learning of witchcraft, open assaults etc.).

* An inventive eastern martial art style, named Dae Khan, based on the
storing of kinetic energy and anger when the martial artist dodges the
blows of the enemy and the releasing of this energy in one, well-aimed,
crippling strike. Along with the basic martial art style, masters can learn
kaidos, styles that require extreme training and willpower but can achieve
unbelievable things. Some examples are The Rock That stands Against Rain
For A Thousand Years and Strike Of The 3 Fingers That Pierce Like Steel.

* Deities of pagan Europe, in truth powerful spirits living in the Dream
World, overseeing Corahen since the beginning of time.

* A detailed list of diseases, plagues etc. that can visit your character,
all in exceptional and horrible details (it sure pays to be a medicine
student!).

* A dark fantasy ambience that can be perceived during playing. The game
deals with the tragedy and misery brought on the world by a war between
evil and good. Anti-heroes fighting for betrayed ideals ,that even they
begin to question, using questionable methods. People forced to betray
their beliefs and their self in the name of a greater aim. The very nature
of good, evil and the everlasting conflict between them that have brought
nothing than pain and misfortune. The balanced but difficult and risky path
of neutrality some choose to follow and others pervert it to fit their own
ends. The soul and rigid belief hidden inside any of the characters you
play.

So what are you waiting for? Go http://www.geocities.com/area51/vault/8046
and download a set of preliminary rules.

Write at neon@mail.otenet.gr for any comments or to receive any
information.
