Newsgroups: rec.games.design,rec.games.frp.advocacy
Path: news.polymtl.ca!feed.umontreal.ca!newsflash.concordia.ca!newsfeed.pitt.edu!gatech!csulb.edu!hammer.uoregon.edu!arclight.uoregon.edu!feed1.news.erols.com!news.idt.net!www.nntp.primenet.com!nntp.primenet.com!netcom.com!ptl
From: ptl@netcom.com (Tom Lehmann)
Subject: Why have rules? (long)  [was: Can the entire attribute system]
Message-ID: <ptlE0u292.Mx9@netcom.com>
Summary: Why have rules?  Fairness, visualization and player plans.
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
Date: Wed, 13 Nov 1996 23:51:02 GMT
Lines: 104
Sender: ptl@netcom19.netcom.com
Xref: news.polymtl.ca rec.games.design:11718 rec.games.frp.advocacy:30797

When discussing role-playing systems, sooner or later the observation comes
up that the "GM rules" anyways (the GM has the right to alter or disregard a
rule in order to produce a better story/play experience for everyone), so
why bother discussing the pros and cons of various systems since it'll all
just come down to the GM in practice.  (This is often coupled with a "rules
lawyers suck" sentiment as well...)

So let's push this to its extreme -- why bother having any rules at all?

Some of the answers for live-action play are simple -- to keep people from
getting hurt and to simulate stuff (magic, psionics) that is hard to act out.

What about for "table-top" play, where actions are normally done via verbal
description (and a few props) so that safety and hard-to-act-out considerations
aren't present?  What purpose do rules serve here?

I would answer that rules serve three primary functions: fairness, aids to
visualization and player planning.

Fairness

A good rules system will help keep a GM's rulings consistent over a long-term
campaign so that all characters (and thus, players) are treated fairly.

Sure, some GMs can keep this all their previous rulings in their head but
most can't and rules decrease the amount of 'precedents' that needed to be
recorded or remembered.

Rules for character creation tend to result in starting characters whose
general expertise all lie roughly in the same range.  Systems where players
simply describe their characters require lots of GM editing so that they
are all roughly comparable (such systems also tend to increase the amount
of 'GM wheedling' that goes on which often increases player competition).

Visualization

Character creation rules help many players 'get a handle' on their characters;
indeed many players find 'blank-page' describe-your-character systems
intimidating and find that the results of rolling some dice will often suggest
a character to them (but other players often do relish the freedom of design
what you want character generation).

Visualization also factors into 'unconsidered' situations that often crop up
during roleplaying (quick -- how many combat rounds can a character go without
air? 1? 5? 10?).  With no rules, both GMs and players may not have a clue how
to proceed and, particularly in situations where a character's life may hang
in the balance, hasty GM rulings can lead to unfortunate endings and bad
feelings between players and the GM.

Player Planning

If one accepts that the difference between "story-telling" and "role-playing"
is that the listeners are no longer passive but active participants in shaping
the story's ending, then characters must do more than simply react to events,
they must also be able to set events in motion.  This requires plans and
plans require some ability to forecast "what happens if we do X" and "what
is the chance or probability that our plan will work".  A consistent rules
system allows players to make reasonable plans.

In ruleless systems, plans often consist of the players asking GM a lot of
questions -- "if we do this, will this probably happen?" ... "what if we also
do this?"  This often produces the weird effect of the GM playing "both sides
of a two-handed game" as he or she answers the player's questions and by doing
so often makes their plans for them.

If, instead, players -- equipped with the rules and the game situation -- can
go off and make their plans without consulting the GM, then they become much
more the positive actors in their own story (or to use psych jargon, they
become 'empowered').

To sum up, a decent set of rules promotes fairness, aids visualization and
encourages players to have their characters take control of their fate instead
of simply reacting to GM situations.

Well, this all sounds good in theory but in practice, several problems arise.

Players tend to substitute game mechanics (I roll my Oratory skill) for
describing what their character is doing (the speech itself).  This is the
"roll-playing" problem.  Sometimes this is ok (to elid time or when a player's
abilities don't match his or her character's skills -- remember, part of the
fun of roleplaying can be exploring characters very different from yourself)
but too much of this can destroy a campaign's feel.

A difference in player and GM visualization of a scene may hinge on a rules
interpretation.  Since the success or failure of a plan may rest on this, the 
stakes may be 'high', which results in a long rules discussion / argument,
bogging down play.

Players may begin to feel that the success or failure of their characters
depends less on their roleplaying and imagination but on their mastery of
the game system  (the intimidation problem).

In all these cases, the game system has become too intrusive on the game
experience.  The "rpg game design problem" is how to design a system that
promotes fairness, visulization and planning without becoming too intrusive.

There will never be a single answer to this problem (people vary widely on the
issues of how much is too intrusive and how much detail is needed to visualize
/ feel comfortable in various game situations) but that's why discussing game
systems can be useful.
                                                        tom
